---
layout: post
title:  'From the Journal of Misfit #2'
subtitle: 'A Misfit On The Trail Story'
date:   2022-04-18
tags:   backpacking
---
## Mile 380

![mushrooms](/assets/img_misfit_series/09-mushrooms.jpeg)

So far, there are two things I have learned while hiking the trail; The first is that everyone, whether superstitious, religious, or none of
the above, deals in Karma. They have a saying out here; "The trail provides." On the surface, it is a silly catch-all for dumb luck or good
timing. When you start to really listen, though, it goes deeper. It's an idea that if you put yourself out there, it comes back to you when
you need it most. Take care of the trail and its people, and it takes care of you. It is incredible to witness. However, those are stories
for another time.

The other thing I have learned while out here is that although the trail provides, you, of course, need to stay on the trail to make room
for that. That is where cultivating your morale comes into play. Even those traveling in pods are responsible for their individual morale. I
watched three hikers in 3 weeks drop out because the mental game was too much for them to handle. They didn't cultivate their own morale,
let it eat away at them, and eventually let it overwhelm them.

Yesterday, my morale was dipping. I had hiked out of town, then passed by the following hiker haven. The bubble I was hiking with decided it
was time for a zero. I thought I would be happier in the woods, so I pushed down the trail. The following morning breaking away from the
bubble had planted the seeds of doubt. I woke up in a foul mood. Everything was damp (my least favorite state). Despite the exceptional day
just prior, my morale was sliding. Today those seeds were beginning to take root. It was when I was at the top of Roan Mountain that it sank
in.

Here I was at one of the destination shelters of the trail (The highest one on the AT. Very posh.), and instead of feeling excited, I felt
trapped. With bad weather on the horizon, I took a chance and called a B&B off the trail. This is unusual for me because I donâ€™t like to
stray more than 2 miles off-trail, and also, places are booked solid in the height of the bubble. I was still trying to figure out my goal
in calling when a woman on the other end picked up and, to my surprise, just so happened to have a single bed open for the night. We chatted
briefly and arranged a pickup, including two nights stay and a slackpack service. I was immediately elated! Not only would I get TWO
showers, laundry, breakfast, dinner in town, and resupply, but also a whole day of hiking backpack free! I honestly danced down the mountain
to greet my chariot, sleep off a delicious steak dinner, and avoid the hail storm that attacked the overcrowded Roan Mountain Shelter (those
that stayed did not enjoy it). It all lined up for me, and my morale has definitely improved.

You might say that was convenient, or you might say I was lucky, or that I just made a simple reservation at a B & B. Me? I say, "The trail
provides."


{% include chapterfy.html %}
