---
layout: post
title: "Distractions"
subtitle: "An Alaskan Vanventure"
date: 2024-04-10
tags: vanflife nomad adventure travel
---

The road less traveled is not often a direct route. Sure, there are featureless highways that scribe straight lines between major cities and
make ones travels fast and direct. Global positioning systems will walk you step by step and turn by turn to expedite your drive from place
to place. However, life as a nomad does not often come with the requirements and stressors of vacation travel. Our heroes are not burdened
by long weekends and PTO requests to make the most of their limited time on route. No. To a nomad everywhere is their backyard. All
attractions and temptations that draw the planted folks out of their routines and across great distances are just around the bend for
wandering types. As such the side quest is a first class citizen and since the night our two heroes set their compasses to the raw
wilderness of Alaska the casual observer would have seen no progress in that direction. To the untrained eye, they had closed less than a
mile towards their grand adventure. Never the less, timing is everything and when opportunity presents itself once must sieze it!

"There is a solar eclipse happening right around the corner from us in 3 weeks" said this one.

"My friend family are all flying to Dallas for the eclipse" said that one "I would love to see them!"

"How does one pass the time?" asked this one.

"Turn here!" shouted that one.

So the wind blew, and their coach veered southward to begin the side quest to share totality with familiar faces in an unfamiliar town.

The weeks passed by quickly exploring the famous cites of the great state of Texas. San Antonio is home to the world famous Alamo as many
know but these two misfits quickly discovered the _El Camino de San Antonio_ a trail connecting five Spanish mission still in operation. The
kilometers count as part of the famous pilgrimaged path know to the world as the Camino de Santiago or simply _El Camino_. This one was excited. That one was skeptical. In
either case paths are made for walking and that is just what they do.

These missions don't carry the notoriety of the Alamo, but what they lack in fame they more than make up for in intimiacy and experience.
While The Alamo sees more that 2.5 million visitors a year, the missions along the Camino de San Antonio receive around 250,000. As a guest
you can explore the grounds and visit the churches, learn about the history and wander the halls of many of their buildings. This one, loved
the beautiful light playing off the stucco and stone surfaces. Trees casting shadows across the ancient surfaces danced in the wind blowing
across the green courtyards of the past. That one, learned of the areas history and significance of the space. She imagined the lives of the
people long before her. While the self imposed poverty of the monks that inhabited the missions struck a chord with this one. Longing for a
simpler existence she empathized with relinquishing her earthly possessions and living by the land and charity of the community. They
collected their kilometers and marked it as a head start to a future adventure of one day hiking the entire El Camino.

Departing the spiritual paths of San Antonio, they next landed in weird streets of Austin, Texas. That one discovered a concert event like
no other taking place on the very week they were in town; _Harry Potter: Live in Concert_! The two travelers took this opportunity to
indulge in a day of makeovers, dined over delicious cuisine then delighted in the simple and silly extravagance of one of that one's
favorite movies accompanied by a live orchestra. Sometimes it is nice to feel fabulous and do ridiculous things. Austin is home to famous
restaurants and the popular "_Bat Bridge_" which they cycled their bikes to and fro, here and there enjoying all the amenties of the
creative city.

With Austin in their taillights, the final destination laid ahead; Dallas. However, Dallas was less the destination and more the backdrop to
the main event in the form of a total eclipse of the sun. The group of friends gathered in the comfort of the backyard of a relatives home,
dawned their matching shirts, and pulled up a chair to watch as the moon and sun aligned to block out the daylight for an incredible 7
minutes on the afternoon of April 8, 2024.

The anticipation was paramount, having built up over the course of many weeks of preparation and discussion.

"I've never seen a total eclipse" said this one.

"Neither have I" said that one.

Along with so many others that day, the group gathered outside and dawning their shades gazed up to the sky to see a grey cloudy blanket
blocking out the suns rays. The disappointment at the thought of missing this once (maybe twice) in a lifetime event was palpable. The group
tried to keep their spirits up but the prospect of a clear unobstructed viewing was low. Never the less they prepared their cameras and
found their seats and counted down the minutes. As the occurrence grew closer the clouds did not let up, and althought they got glimpses of
the crescented sun, it continued to play hide and seek with its observers. This one's heart sank, but that one had not given up hope.

What happened next, dear reader, I will let you decide, but for the group of friends gathered in a strange land, hoping to see a strange
phenomena, it was nothing short of magic.

That one stared up at those clouds covering our feature presentation and dug deep into her heart. She planted her feet hard against the
ground and summoned an energy that even she did not believe she possessed. Encircled by community, gazing at the darkened sky hiding our
view, she muttered a spell "Mother goddess hear my plea, part the clouds so we can see."

Nothing happened at first or perhaps none of them noticed, who can say. However, as the group watched through their special glasses that let
only the blinding light of the sun come through they began to see a circle. Obstructed at first, but quickly taking shape. Had they simply
taken off their shades they would have see it happen, but behind their filters and distracted by the bright light it was lost on them. The
clouds dissipated, and vanished moments before totality. Then, just as the moon completely blacked out the sun and the halo of rays beamed
out, they removed their glasses to discover a clear blue, albeit darkened sky. Totality engulfed them and this one began to cry.

It. Was. Surreal.

Nothing could have prepared them for the experience at hand. Stars became visible. Shadows, erased. It was dusk but also day, and the sky!
The deep black circle with its white aurora shining like a black hole in the clear sky was unlike anything either of them had ever
witnessed. In moments like this, it is easy to let the trials and tribulations of our lives feel both insignificant and magnificent all at
once. You can feel how so microscopically small you are to an indifferent universe of heavenly bodies so incomprehensibly large it is often
easier to ignore them, than to try and understand. However, here in the all encompassing shadow of a celestial object hovering
between the Earth and Sun you can _feel_ it all. The Earth, the moon and the Sun... and you.
